# Support-Vector-Machine
Support Vector Machine (SVM) is a powerful machine learning algorithm used for linear or nonlinear classification, regression, and even outlier detection tasks. SVMs can be used for a variety of tasks, such as text classification, image classification, spam detection, handwriting identification, gene expression analysis, face detection, and anomaly detection. SVMs are adaptable and efficient in a variety of applications because they can manage high-dimensional data and nonlinear relationships.
The main objective of the SVM algorithm is to find the optimal hyperplane in an N-dimensional space that can separate the data points in different classes in the feature space. The hyperplane tries that the margin between the closest points of different classes should be as maximum as possible. The dimension of the hyperplane depends upon the number of features. If the number of input features is two, then the hyperplane is just a line. If the number of input features is three, then the hyperplane becomes a 2-D plane. It becomes difficult to imagine when the number of features exceeds three. 

Support Vector Machine Terminology
Hyperplane: Hyperplane is the decision boundary that is used to separate the data points of different classes in a feature space. In the case of linear classifications, it will be a linear equation i.e. wx+b = 0.
Support Vectors: Support vectors are the closest data points to the hyperplane, which makes a critical role in deciding the hyperplane and margin. 
Margin: Margin is the distance between the support vector and hyperplane. The main objective of the support vector machine algorithm is to maximize the margin.  The wider margin indicates better classification performance.
Kernel: Kernel is the mathematical function, which is used in SVM to map the original input data points into high-dimensional feature spaces, so, that the hyperplane can be easily found out even if the data points are not linearly separable in the original input space. Some of the common kernel functions are linear, polynomial, radial basis function(RBF), and sigmoid.
Hard Margin: The maximum-margin hyperplane or the hard margin hyperplane is a hyperplane that properly separates the data points of different categories without any misclassifications.
Soft Margin: When the data is not perfectly separable or contains outliers, SVM permits a soft margin technique. Each data point has a slack variable introduced by the soft-margin SVM formulation, which softens the strict margin requirement and permits certain misclassifications or violations. It discovers a compromise between increasing the margin and reducing violations.
C: Margin maximisation and misclassification fines are balanced by the regularisation parameter C in SVM. The penalty for going over the margin or misclassifying data items is decided by it. A stricter penalty is imposed with a greater value of C, which results in a smaller margin and perhaps fewer misclassifications.
Hinge Loss: A typical loss function in SVMs is hinge loss. It punishes incorrect classifications or margin violations. The objective function in SVM is frequently formed by combining it with the regularisation term.
Dual Problem: A dual Problem of the optimisation problem that requires locating the Lagrange multipliers related to the support
